to Lind Zulu who's South Africa's
minister of Social Development and an MP
with the African National Congress she's
joining us from Johannesburg we thank
you for your time with us on Al jazer
why did South Africa take this step
now I'm thank you very much for the
opportunity and we wish to uh call on
all the people of the world to follow us
as we've taken this step and this step
is informed by what has seen on ground
and what has been happening in Gaza in
particular particularly the killing of
women and children and civilians I want
to State up front that the governing
party of the African National Congress
has always stood by with the Palestinian
people in their call uh for a two-state
solution but more importantly we want to
see an end of the conflict through
peaceful means as far as possible and
the international platform is the
platform that is available to the
governing party of the African National
Congress is the government of South
Africa this is the available platform
that we decided we need to step on to
because we are looking for being
assisted and also an end to this
conflict in the best way that is
possible but however seeing what has
been happening the numbers that of
people that are being killed the
escalation of the people that are being
killed the numbers are venders and we
believe that this is the right time for
us both as the African National Congress
and our government to step up to the
next level in finding a solution what is
South Africa's reaction to Israel saying
that the South African accusations were
baseless and a blood
liable it's very unfortunate that this
point because what people can see in
their on their TVs in their homes and
everywhere they are it's speaks for
itself South Africa has always been and
in particular the governing party the
African National Congress has been in
solidarity with the people of Palestine
not only have we been in solidarity but
we have actively engaged both in terms
of the Palestinian people as well as
Israel by the way because as you all
know we do have an embassy here and we
in South Africa and Israel Embassy in
South Africa but we also have one in
ramala and our position has always been
lesson learned from our own situation of
upper gate and conflict and
marginalization of our people and the
killing of our people for a very long
time but we think those lessons are
lessons that can also be exercised and
be used
as was also declared a crime against
humanity interal Community Minister Lind
Zulu look obviously the ball is now in
the court of the icj and if indeed it
rules that Israel is guilty of genocide
what practical impact do you expect it
to
have we expect this to have a practical
impact to the global Community because
we believe that we not standing alone as
Africa on this we think that once that
happens the whole world will act even
faster in terms of finding a solution in
helping end the conflict using the
international platform but we call on
the International Community to stand up
with us as South Africa in our quest to
finding peace in in this conf but we do
know that icj rulings they are while
they're binding under the UN Charter it
has no means of enforcement so could
this be anything more than symbolic I
mean rulings are sometimes ignored as we
saw happen in March 2022 when the court
ordered Russia to Halt its military
campaign in Ukraine and and that didn't
happen we wish the world to move more
towards finding solution than just
symbolism because right here we are
talking about the deaths the destruction
the complete destruction of the entire
area all the people who are being
affected they are told move to this area
and then they move to this area and they
find that the bombardment and the
killing continues relentless on them so
for us this is not symbolic it is one
way of mobilizing solidarity in
particular with the people of Palestine
but it is also mobilizing the
International Community to act and act
faster so that we can end the killing of
women children and civilians in
particular let's just look at some of
the detail now in the motion that you
filed South Africa is asking the Court
to declare quote on an urgent basis that
Israel is in breach of its obligations
in terms of the genocide convention
should immediately seize all acts and
measures in breach of those obligations
and take a number of related actions
let's stop at related actions for a
moment what are those
exactly those would we have to be dealt
with particularly because as I will
clarify that we are the governing party
the African National Congress but it is
the Department of international
relationss in particular together with
the Department of Justice in South
Africa that will then have to look at
all the technicalities and follow the
rules and all the technicalities to take
the matter
forward okay we'll leave it there
Minister lindula we thank you so much
for joining us on aler